Freedom from spatial interference means one software partition
should not change the code or data of another software partition.
In other words memory and storage between software elements should be separated.
Otherwise, code and data can become corrupted.
In practical terms you'll need to be mindful of read,
write and execution permissions.
Think about the relationship between software partitions as being one of trust.
A high element mistrust any low level element.
So an ASIL D could read from a QM element.
The ASIL D element however should minimize reading from a QM element.
An ASIL D could also write to a QM element.
But the QM element should only be able to read from ASIL
D. A key element should not write to the higher ASIL element.
Likewise, if QM elements should be able to
execute functions provided by an ASIL D element,
but as an ASIL D element would
not trust QM functions and would not execute a QM function.
As a concrete example,
what happens if a software bug in a QM element
mistakenly creates a pointer address to an ASIL C partition?
The QM element might then write to an ASIL C element.
This could lead to a safety goal violation,
so we should either prevent or detect it.
Next, let's discuss temporal freedom from interference.